In 1910 long before the implementation of what we would recognize today as the “Internet” Paul Otlet and Henri La Fontaine created the idea of the Mundaneum. This was a comprehensive collection of all published knowledge, categorized by a system Otlet called  the “Reseau” connecting each filed document with a “link” written on note cards. 
25 years later Otlet predicted in his book “Monde” the web as a concept, referencing X-ray, radio and cinematic technologies being able to transmit information to anyone in the world. 

In 1945 Vannevar Bush, director of the Manhattan Project, wrote about a similar concept to the Mundaneum In his essay “As We May Think”. Bush’s idea was of a device that could store every book and index ever created . This idea wasn’t followed through in any capacity until 1962 when Douglas Engelbart saw Bush’s essay and created an system called “oNLine” which attempted to achieve such an idea. 

Post world war 2 at the height of Cold War tension the US established the RAND corporation to take on projects related to furthering technological advancement. Alongside RAND the ARPA (Advanced Research Projects Agency) was established with director Joseph Licklider’s goal being not only to put a man on the moon, but to also develop an Intergalactic computer network. In 1958 Paul Baran was assigned by the RAND organization to create a communication system able to survive a nuclear attack. Baran's solution to an indestructible message system was the concept of packet switching, which unlike a message relayed through a phone, it  broke the information down into chucks and distributed those chunks along different paths. This project would later form with Licklider’s concept of an intergalactic computer network to create the internet.  Several years later in 1969 the company BBN Technologies inherited this job and successfully connected computers at UCLA before expanding to UC Santa Barbara and the University of Utah creating “ARPANET”

ARPANET expanded all across the United States, as the technology advanced, but it remained impossible to connect to other international networks as many countries had their own. To combat this Robert Kahn and Vinton Cerf created the “Internet Protocol” the first successful test was conducted in 1977 and by 1983 all computers worldwide changed to the system. For the first time using computers people could communicate to one another across networks, share files, emails and even play games. These technologies grew up until 1991 when Tim Berners-Lee launched the first ever web page, making the internet accessible to just about anyone not just scientists engineers and academics. 

Before the invention of the home Modem in 1977 the computer was simply a singular tool without the ability to connect to other machines. Dennis Hayes took the modem technology that was truly only accessible to large scale corporations and created a commercial device for 49.95. 

Around the same time the first wireless network was implemented in Hawaii called ALOHAnet. It used radio waves to connect computers from island to island. This proto wifi network was first realized all the way back in 1937 by famed Hollywood actress Hedy Lamar, who used her advanced knowledge of radio guided torpedo signaling from her Austrian arms dealer ex husband, to create a communication system that would constantly switch frequencies. From that idea wifi has revolutionized the way we use the internet making it something mobile.
